# Wallstreetbets Stock Sentiment Web Application
#### Video Demo:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x7nSK7yzwkg
### Description
In this modern day and age, stock sentiment among retail traders has become more important than ever. One of the most popular trading discussion board on the internet is the subreddit r/wallstreetbets. There, you'll find a massive amount of people discussing plays and making bad financial decisions, gambling large amounts of money away buying derivatives.

With it's large 16 million and counting members, it has been capable of disrupting the market and even influencing large hedge funds when members unite on something common. Take the GameStop short squeeze in January 2021 for example; a short squeeze of the stock of the American video game retailer GameStop and other securities took place, causing major financial consequences for certain hedge funds and large losses for short sellers. Approximately 140 percent of GameStop's public float had been sold short, and the rush to buy shares to cover those positions as the price rose caused it to rise even further. The short squeeze was initially and primarily triggered by users of the subreddit r/wallstreetbets, although a number of hedge funds also participated.

Thus, I have decided to create this web application that queries data from an API and gets the top 50 stocks discussed on r/wallstreetbets for the day. It then displays the data in a nice format and even does some analysis on the data. This Flask webapp has three pages, an index page which shows the data for today (New York Time), the day before and an error page if it fails to get data from the API.

First off, the API data consists of the stock ticker, the amount of comments that mentioned the ticker in the subreddit, stock sentiment and the stock sentiment score. Using this, we can get some interesting insights, such as which stocks are the most discussed on the subreddit for that day and whether the overall sentiment is bullish or bearish (positive or negative).

The website is first created using a layout template, which contains Bootstrap, the navbar and the overall sentiment. Then, the layout template is extended in the index file as well as the yesterday file.

Both files using the layout template has a Bootstrap navigation bar as well as an overall sentiment analysis. The navigation bar consists of a brand logo and brand title which when clicked on goes to the index page, as well as a link that goes to the yesterday page. The overall sentiment analysis takes data from the API and calculates the overall sentiment for r/wallstreetbets for that day. Extensive use of Jinjja conditionals are used to figure our what to display on the page, such as whether overall sentiment if bullish or bearish.

The index file contains a Jinjja block for the body as well as for the script. In the body block, a table is first created, displaying all the data neatly in rows. The stock ticker is created as a button, which when clicked will pop-up a dialog on the page using Bootstrap's modal component. Inside the modal contains the number of comments and the sentiment score for today and yesterday, for the ticker that the user clicked on. It does so by making use of Jinjja For loops and If conditionals. It then does some analysis on the data, showing what the trend for that stock is in terms of sentiment score. You can open the chart for the stock if you want by clicking on the 'Open chart' button, which will open a new tab to TradingView for that stock, or you can dismiss the dialogue all together by clicking out. For the script block, it just contains some simple JavaScript which automatically colors the sentiment and sentiment score green or red depending on the value.

To see a more complete set of data for the previous day, I created a yesterday page which queries API data from the day before and displays it similarly to the index page. Overall sentiment is still calculated but this time, there is no trend given when you click on the stock ticker.

The project is useful in analysing stock sentiment by scraping data from one of the biggest trading discussion board on the internet. Perhaps one could find a correlation between internet sentiment and the movement of the actual stock price itself, and use this data to influence his purchasing decisions. I've learnt a lot from creating this web app, such as how to create good looking websites using Bootstrap and Jinjja, as well as parsing API data and backend web development using Flask.
